# Research Project: Evaluating the Representation of Marginalized Communities in Boston Media: A NLP & ML Approach

Tech Used: 
Python (SpaCy, NLTK, sklearn)


As the media plays an increasingly  pivotal role in shaping public opinion and influencing policy decisions, it is crucial to examine the biases and underrepresentation of marginalized groups, such as Black and African Americans, in media coverage. In this study, I will develop a proof of concept for evaluating the media coverage of underrepresented groups in Boston using Natural Language Processing (NLP) and Machine Learning (ML) technologies. My data comprises articles from various WGBH articles, which I analyzed using existing and custom-developed algorithms to identify and categorize the topics discussed. By focusing on the frequency of topics related to underrepresented groups and explicit mentions of race, my hope was to provide deeper insights into race usage in media coverage.
My project culminates in a report outlining my methodology, results, and the explicit mentions of race found in WGBH articles. The end goal of my project is to supplement an existing web application for journalists and editors, displaying the analysis results and fostering a deeper understanding of media coverage of underrepresented groups in Boston. This application will enable more informed decisions about news reporting, leading to more inclusive and equitable news coverage. Ultimately, I believe that my study will contribute to the understanding of and add perspective to conversations around the media's impact on public opinion and policy decisions by promoting more diverse and fair representation of marginalized groups.
